So if you look at the field of human
development, one of the things that
you'll discover is that as people grow
and evolve, one of the things that
happens cognitively especially is that
they have the ability to start holding
contrary beliefs at the same time. So
you can see how maybe you both have free
will and you don't have free will. Or
you can see how the Republican point of
view is a great point of view and a
horrible point of view and the
Democratic point of view is a great
point of view or a horrible point of
view. Or that one person who thinks that
it's really critical to do marketing in
a clickbay way has some intelligence and
one person who feels like having high
integrity marketing has some
intelligence and that there's some
wisdom in both sides and that you can
hold them at the same time. And so what
that really means is that if you feel
like you have a belief that you can't
see the other side of, it's holding back
your freedom.
Somebody says, "Okay, I have this belief
and this belief is true and this belief
therefore has to be false." And that's
binary thinking. And that means that
your brain is in fear. We do binary
thinking when we're scared. And you'll
see this all the time in meetings. One
person will think that the decision
that's being made is going to cut 20
people out of their department and hand
it to somebody else's department or they
think that they're going to lose scope
or they think they're going to get a bad
review or they're going to think that
they they're not in control if they
allow this thing to happen. And all of a
sudden that meeting will go from, oh,
let's solve a problem together to
it's either this way or this way. they
they get in a debate and they debate as
as if it's like one way or the other way
instead of saying, "Oh, there's wisdom
in what you're saying, there's wisdom in
what I'm saying. How do we garner both
of those two pieces of wisdom and make a
better solution?" And so, you see this
all the time that that fear thinking.
And so, when you're looking at the
beliefs that limit you, what those
beliefs that are limiting you are are
beliefs that you are at least only
seeing one side of and that are personal
to you. I am smart. I am dumb. I am
uh only valuable if I accomplish
something. I should be farther along at
40 years old. All these things are
beliefs that limit your capacity. And
so, let me let me give you like a real
example of it. Obviously, if someone
says, "I'm dumb," then they're going to
go into a situation and they're not
going to learn as well if they have that
belief system. And that limits them.
That holds back their freedom. But they
did this study for kids who were told
they were smart and they said, "Okay,
hey kid, you're really smart. You're
really smart. You're really smart." And
then they gave them a test that it was
impossible for them to succeed at. They
were definitely going to just fall flat
on their face in this test. So they gave
it to them and then they gave them
another test that was almost identical
to it a couple days later and said,
"Hey, we're going to give you this test,
you really smart kid."
And what they found out was that all
those kids tried less because they
didn't want to prove that they weren't
smart. And so if I don't try, then it
doesn't prove that I'm not smart.
Whereas different kids who took the test
but were told, "Hey, we really like your
work ethic. We we think you're really
hard workers." They did better on the
test the second time because their
self-defin was different.
And so the any way you define yourself
limits you. And I know this is such a
weird thing to conceive of. Wait, I'm
supposed to have positive thoughts. Hey,
I'm a good person. Hey, I can do it. All
those things are supposed to make you go
further ahead. And there's some benefit
to them. Without a doubt, there's some
benefit to them. But if you're using
them as a pep talk, what you're saying
is you need a pep talk to be that. If I
if I tell you enough times that you're
good enough, then you'll act like you're
good enough, which is basically saying
you don't think you're good enough,
right? It's the same thing that happens
when somebody comes up to you and says,
you know, don't be sad or you can do it.
There's a way in which you're being made
small instead of, oh, I know you've got
this, right? That that pep talk thing is
also a limiting belief because it's also
making you smaller or shorter or not
enough.
This is incredibly uncomfortable for
people. And the reason that it's
uncomfortable because at some point you
have to look around and say, "Wow, I
can't fully believe any thought about
myself." So then we're like, "What am I?
Who am I?"
And this is, like I said, an very
uncomfortable thing because what most
people do with that when they first hit
it, when they first like get in touch
with that is they go despondent. Well,
fine then. I could do anything, I guess.
Why? Why do anything? Life is
meaningless.
uh like that's what's typically they do.
But what it actually ends up being is a
tremendous amount of freedom. Oh, wait a
second. I'm not confined by anything.
I'm free to do whatever I want to do. I
get to experiment and try and interact
with life in a variety of ways and see
what works for me in this moment. It's
like a an absolute crazy amount of
freedom.
But it feels like there's no ground
anymore. Oh, wait a second. Yeah, I'm
the guy who always solves the problem.
I'm the guy who always gets people to
like me. I'm the guy who's always
successful.
Well, now it's like, well, I guess
there's always somebody who's more
successful than me. And and what is
success anyways? And
all of a sudden, you're what what the
what the hell am I doing here?
And then you're actually really stuck
with that. You're stuck with that moment
of, oh, the the the
ground has fallen out from underneath
me.
I have nothing to hold on to anymore.
And it feels like you're falling.
And then you realize the ground never
really shows up.
And it's not falling. It's flying
because it's freedom.
And and that is the is the place where
you can go if you're willing to go
through
this knowing this place of like, oh, I
know. I have certainty. I know what I'm
supposed to be doing. And you go through
that into I have no idea. And you land
on this other side where, oh, I'm not
actually constrained by my beliefs
anymore. And what you see from that
place is that every belief I have about
myself is both true and not true.
Somebody can come up to me and say,
"Hey, Joe, you're an asshole." And I
can, "Yeah, absolutely. I guarantee it."
I just made a video telling people that
they had no meaning. That totally sounds
like an thing to do. And
somebody can say, "Hey, Joe, like I see
how much you love and care and that you
put your whole life into
um being a benefit to people." And I go,
"Yeah, that's totally true, too."
And all of a sudden there's you like
there's nothing that's really going to
trigger me. no judgment that is going to
be thrown at me that I'm going to
defend. There's nothing to defend
anymore. That sense of self dissolves
out of something very personal and
limited by having a series of belief
systems and moves into something
incredibly expansive and beautiful
and it doesn't have any definition. You
can't hold on to it but it's it's a bit
like the ocean really like and that's
what happens that sense of self come
becomes instead of like this very hard
rock it moves from this very hard rock
into this sense of an ocean and a sword
attacks the ocean and it's ocean doesn't
care
I you get to do whatever you want to do
it's this really amazing place to hang
out
and if you're limiting in your belief.
If you say, "No, I am dumb. I am smart.
I am successful."
Then all of a sudden, you can't do
everything that a notion can do. You're
just more of a rock.